hey it's Stu from Evolution unleash
today we're going to look at how AI can
help us create Sops or standard
operating processes and if you're
anything like me you probably go uh sop
is boring and you know some of the stuff
that makes you successful in business is
boring luckily we've got a prompt for
you today that you're going to get for
free that's going to help you build the
Sops in your business at a very high
level and the reason you need that look
I think back to my days uh I was a high
achiever in the corporate world very
high like sought after big salaries and
my last corporate role was actually a
national sales manager for Logitech and
I thought wow look at my success I'm
doing such a great job self-employment
will be so easy I'll make so much
money and what I didn't know then is
that the success I had was built on the
shoulders and back of these Sops that
had been built before I even got there
right and it was these Sops that I was
following that enabled My
Success so four years into being
self-employed in my chocolate business I
won't bore you with all the details
suffers to say I love chocolate and I
had a chocolate factory I had a mentor
come in who had his own business many
years prior in confectionary and the
first thing he asked me after looking
around my kitchen was uh you got 12
staff where are your Sops and I'm like
what do you
H blank look and uh he's like your
systems and processes oh we just keep
that up here it's easy and I just train
them Hand by hand we don't want paper
that just gathers dust you know I had
this kind of misconception that all
these Sops and folders that we got in
the corporate world were just fluff
written by Bard HR people trying to keep
their jobs I didn't understand how
important this stuff was sorry HR people
forgive me but the fact is my M he sat
down he looked at the mess that I was in
and he like okay here's why you need an
sop he
didn't go crazy he just said this is why
they work said it takes your process and
it makes it repeatable once it's
repeatable and you have all your systems
repeatable you can stack them you can
build a production schedule and you'll
be significantly more efficient and
you'll save a ton of Labor and it'll be
much easier to bring on new stuff and
I'm like I'm sorry
but man the process was such a pain in
the backside to build these Sops so here
we are in the age of AI let's go show
you how it's done fast easy without any
headaches in a way that will actually
power your business and make it easy
we've got a prompt here you're going to
run through chat GPT today this will
work on any AI model including chat GPT
3.5 so if you've only got the free one
this prompt has been tested and will
work so this prompt comes from our
ultimate prompt toolkit which is another
freeb we offer and you'll see down gosh
in our table of
contents we have a lot of prompts from
content writing sales and marketing uh
and Business Development prompts they're
pretty much the prompts we use for our
own business and decided to share them
so we'll just click that we'll head on
down and here it is how to create an
efficient and flexible sop and we want
it to not just uh
Define our process we want to make it
better we want to make it more efficient
so we can achieve it easier cheaper
faster the thing I need to point out is
here we've got some placeholders so here
you just write in your own words okay so
copy this first into chat GPT and to do
that just scroll it's a quite a long
prompt these are not one liners these
are professionally engineered prompts
just highlight the whole thing and go
copy or you can go contrl C nice and
easy what we then do is we want to fill
in the placeholders now you can't fill
it in here this is a view only right we
don't want everybody else you see
there's some people in here now seeing
your stuff so you'll need to either just
do it in another document or you can
actually do it in chat GPT before you
run the
prompt what are we looking at well you
just put a quick overview of your
organization and what industry you're in
a quick focus on what the task is that
you're talking about so take one of your
workflows or one of the things that you
do in your business repeatedly and just
just give it a title a task what is that
task and then in your own words just
write down the process from think about
all the different steps and if it's a
complex process get some people who are
using that process involved if you've
got employees or team members otherwise
just write it in your own words first I
do this then I do this then I do this
and just try and do it in order okay
then what resources do you need so what
tools what software do you use in your
company or your business drop those down
and then any important considerations
that you'd want someone to know uh when
they're running this system or process
because we want to use this to train new
staff as well okay so here's one I
prepared earlier so we've run the prompt
uh I've created a small online business
specializing in personalized Pet
Portraits basically people send me a
phot of their pet I make it really funky
put it in a whole bunch of different uh
settings and send them back digital
versions of their pit it's a madeup
business it's not real just for this
today and I've written down the process
put the resources I want to show you the
output but uh before we do that there is
this very very cool uh token override so
you'll see that sometimes it'll say to
be continued I'll show you that when we
get there anyway look at this here is
our sop nice the purpose the resource
list the order Pro the steps right so
it's actually going through the steps
now this prpt does something pretty
flash I'll show you in a moment so
you'll run all of that use case
scenarios and then you see this to be
continued this is a way that we have
created or a method or a prompt snippet
for a prompt modifier to allow us to
push beyond the traditional prompt and
response don't worry about this stuff I
know it sounds a bit complicated but
really what it does is lets us push
Beyond a single response so that the AI
can give us a long response and not just
give us some short condensed stuff and
we're like H it needs to be longer same
if you're coding or writing articles or
anything this token override which is in
the prompt over here okay so here it is
yours you can have this I'll show you at
the end how to get this anyway what you
do is you type please continue that was
a long way to get to that point wasn't
it and then it's going to give us some
process Improvement
recommendations so automate your order
tracking uh develop a customer portal
for instant feedback and improve your
digital asset management and so on and
so on and that's for you as the business
owner to sort of think about hey
what should I do to improve this process
now we want the once you you can play
around you can rerun this once you've
updated it but you then just want to
take this put it in a document and
format it it's actually really easy you
can use free Google Docs just highlight
the whole
thing go right click
copy and then say you're in the ultimate
prompt toolkit just you can't copy it
here you can't add or change anything
here you just go file new document and
then here we will uh paste it and to do
that we just
rightclick paste without
formatting and it'll be unformatted but
it's always good for us to format it
because it means we're reading it and
then we can go through and we can just
okay we're going to uh make that a
hitter or a
title and just go put some lines in
we'll go and highlight
all of their things and so on so you
know we might go oh we need all the
resource lists we might bullet point and
voila voila until you've gone and
formatted it and then you have an sop
for that task and you can do that for
every task in your
business uh and when you when to get
really flash you can put them all in and
say how do I optimize the whole business
that's a story for another day it's
getting a bit sunny in my studio so I'm
going to leave it there but one last
thing how how do you get your hands on
this ultimate prompt toolkit I'll drop
the link down in the description
basically just you're going to get a
link to this get the ultimate prompt
toolkit for free professionally
engineered prompts we do this so you
don't get sucked in by these prompt
packs that's a rant for another day
folks and you can just uh click this put
your email in and we'll email you the
ultimate prompt toolkit instantly nice
and easy so folks Sops not fun very
boring I love using AI for those tasks
to get them off my plate but also you
know make my business more efficient
because you cannot scale without Sops as
I learned back in my corporate world and
my bumpy transition to self-employment
okay that's it for today please give us
a subscribe if you haven't already and
I'll be back soon with some more cool
ways to get an edge from chat GPT and AI
peace